[INTERNAL] UI5 Tooling v4 migration guide (#968)
SAP/ui5-tooling: docs/updates/migrate-v4.md

## Node.js and npm Version Support

**This release requires Node.js versions v20.11.0, v21.2.0 or higher as well as npm v10 or higher.**

> Support for older Node.js and npm releases has been dropped and will cause an error to be shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for older Node.js and npm releases has been dropped and will cause an error.
```

## Specification Versions Support

Going forward, **only projects with Specification Versions 2.0 and higher are supported.**

> In case a legacy specification version is detected, **an automatic migration is attempted.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a legacy specification version is detected, **an automatic migration is attempted.**
```

> This means your old projects might still work. Unless they have non-standard configuration in their ui5.yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your old projects might therefore still work unless they have a non-standard configuration in their ui5.yaml.
```

## Changes for Projects

!!! info

>     ✅ Projects defining **Specification Version 3.x** are expected to be **fully compatible with UI5 Tooling v4**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ✅ Projects defining **Specification Version 2.x** are expected to be **fully compatible with UI5 Tooling v4**
```

There shouldn't be any difference between Specification Version 2 and 3 in this regard

For projects defining the latest **Specification Versions 4.0 and higher**, some changes apply:

> * **Breaking Change:** Remove bundle option `usePredefineCalls`. UI5 CLI v4.0.0 and above will always use `sap.ui.predefine` calls in bundles, making this option obsolete. See [Configuration](../pages/Configuration.md#properties) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Breaking Change:** Remove the bundle option `usePredefineCalls`. UI5 CLI v4.0.0 and above will always use `sap.ui.predefine` calls in bundles, making this option obsolete. See [Configuration](../pages/Configuration.md#properties) for details.
```

> * **Breaking Change:** New `async` option for `builder.bundles.bundleDefinition.section` with default value = `true`; only applicable if mode = “require”. See [Configuration: `bundleDefinition.section`](../pages/Configuration.md#properties) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Breaking Change:** New `async` option for `builder.bundles.bundleDefinition.section` with default value = `true`; only applicable if mode = "require". See [Configuration: `bundleDefinition.section`](../pages/Configuration.md#properties) for details.
```

> * **Breaking Change:** New option `async` for `builder.bundles.bundleDefinition.section`. Only applicable if mode = “require”. Default value `true`. See [Configuration: `bundleDefinition.section`](../pages/Configuration.md#properties) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Breaking Change:** New `async` option for `builder.bundles.bundleDefinition.section` with default value = `true`; only applicable if mode = “require”. See [Configuration: `bundleDefinition.section`](../pages/Configuration.md#properties) for details.
```

See also [Configuration: Specification Version 4.0](../pages/Configuration.md#specification-version-40).

## Migrate Your Code 

### Changes to @ui5/cli

> Occurrences of `console.log` in the codebase are replaced with `process.stderr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Occurrences of `console.log` in the code base are replaced with `process.stderr`.
```

Аny scripts that capture the output from `console.log` need to be adjusted to rely on `process.stderr`.

### Changes to @ui5/fs

> Non-public DuplexCollection#byGlobSource API has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Non-public `DuplexCollection#byGlobSource` API has been removed.
```

### Changes to @ui5/builder

- **Bundling**: The `usePredefineCalls` option has been removed. Bundling now enforces the use of `sap.ui.predefine` instead of function wrappers.  

> - **Task API**: The `namespace` option has been renamed to `projectNamespace`. Check documentation for [CustomTasks API](../pages/extensibility/CustomTasks.md#task-implementation)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Task API**: The `namespace` option has been renamed to `projectNamespace`. For more information, check the documentation for [CustomTasks API](../pages/extensibility/CustomTasks.md#task-implementation)  
```
